Human social interaction is deeply embodied. The precise control we have over our face, body, and vocal chords combined with the fine acuity of our sensory system allows us to establish incredibly rich information streams with each other at a moment’s notice. Through coherent sequences facial expressions, gesture, and speech, we frequently immerse one another in our inner worlds through storytelling, share our joy and grief during heartfelt dialogue, and develop complex plans to address future challenges. Although much of human sociality now unfolds via the relatively recent innovation of social media, our brains have evolved first and foremost to understand each other through face-to-face social interactions.

My research focuses on <b>participation</b>: the psychological and neural mechanisms that allow us to take a birds-eye view of social situations and use this perspective to guide contextually informed behavior. I am specifically interested in how we manage a seemingly dual role in contexts like group conversations, where we often orchestrate our expressions toward multiple people while simultaneously being one of many recipients of another's expressions. Despite the complexity inherent to these contexts, people navigate them with seasoned intuition. The foundation of this intuition is that while not all conversations are the same, they are made of the same ingredients—emergent, relational patterns like mutual nods of agreement, sequences of vocal intonation that distinguish playful riffing from serious debate, or subtle patterns of eye contact that signal close friendship.

Importantly, these phenomena exist as relations between people; they are irreducibly relative and may or may not involve oneself. Scientifically, we are only at the very beginning of understanding the vast ecosystem of interpersonal signaling and how our brains support this signaling. My research is aimed at understanding the structure of social interactions in terms of interpersonal signaling and how the brain uses variants of this structure to carry out fundamental social-psychological processes, from understanding each other’s feelings and intentions, to the implicit assignment of social roles, to developing a sense of self. 

